QUESTION 4:  Are average scores for hospital quality or procedural variability
correlated with patient survey responses?

ANSWER:
For the survey ratings, the achievement, improvement and dimension scores were
included for groups of nurses, doctors, staff, pain assessment, communication,
cleanliness and overall.  The baseline and benchmark rates were not included
given that they are comparison measures and therefore should not be part of
the scoring assessment.  The scores were averaged per group in the survey
table, then averaged into a overall score per hospital in the survey_avg
table.  Next, the hospital_proc_var table was created to obtain the procedure
variability per hospital so that I could later join the procedures to the
survey results.  Unfortunately, I could not use the procedure scores from Q3
as they were grouped by procedure rather than hospital.  It may be faster to
compute had I restructured the schema to have the procedure as its own entity
and then the hospital- and measure- tables attached to the procedures.

To set up for the correlation calculations, two tables were made by joining
the hospital scores and survey scores, and the procedure variability and
survey scores, respectively.  

The correlation between the average survey scores and hospital average scores
was:
-0.11840958169525921

The correlation between the average survey scores and procedure variability
was:
-0.47476313612180854

There seems to be very weak negative correlation between how a hospital scores
with patient surveys and with patient metrics.  On the other hand, there is a
moderately negative correlation between survey scores and procedure
variability.  This result is intruiging given the findings of a recent article
from the JAMA entitled  "The Cost of Satisfaction A National Study of
Patient Satisfaction, Health Care Utilization, Expenditures, and
Mortality," where they noted higher patient satisfaction associated with
higher inpatient stays (i.e. readmissions) and mortality outcomes (i.e.
procedure outcomes).  This also makes sense in that the higher the procedure
variability, meaning that the less consistent the procedure outcomes, the more
dissatisfied the patients would be with their survey scores.
